The one that I do use somewhat frequently,
and
this will be where we kind of see
a little bit more of this in practice.
And I encourage you all cuz like there
are various things to play around with
and we will.
I would follow along to this section cuz
like we'll do an exercise where I think
it's interesting to us is time.
Right time you're allowed to mock
right in my fictitious ruleset that is
a blog post waiting to happen of
Steve's rules on when you are not
allowed to mock based on his
opinions rather than facts.
Time right and so for
instance because reasons,
I'll give you the real-world use case for
me.
I've got these drop-downs for
filtering, right?
They send what looks like a SQL query to
the back-end that should
get you the results.
The old UI that we were migrating from had
this drop down with like, last 24 hours.
Last three days, whatever right drop down.
Originally we were just replac forming so
that we could pay down some tech debt and
deploy to our own cloud.
That query engine on the back end
does not support last 24 hours.
That's not a thing, right?
You can't send it last 24 hours, right?
So but you have to send it a query, right?
So the way that we do that is
pretty simple, which is start time.
It's 24 hours ago, right?
So take and then on elasticsearch
that works on sequel lite
you actually I have to put an end
time that I had to put in the future.
It's not important.
So there were all these use
cases where I'm like, hey,
depending on which backend you're talking
to, and this and that and the other thing,
there's a lot of logic here.
So I should write some tests, right.
Mostly because for a sanity check,
all these different things,
I wanted the feedback loop.
Once I got it working, I was pretty sure
no one's going to touch this code again.
I don't need the test coverage for
reliability, I need test coverage so
I don't go insane, changing this thing and
doing the mental math in my head.
So in that case,
I wanted to see like, hey,
if I put 24 hours ago,
it should have been 24 hours ago.
What's the problem with time?
>> Time Zones.
>> Well,
there's lots of problems with time.
In the words is it like seal as it?
But like it's originally,
is a Kenny Loggins time keeps on ticking,
ticking, ticking into the future,
all right.
You can put a value in your code base.
It's instantaneously a broken test, right?
And in those cases, that is when you
might choose to mock out time, right?
So let's take a look.
I have another kind of, this was just
simply a little dummy file that I could
write code in and
see instantaneous results.
We have this other one here called time
zone, which is not about time zones,
does this file pass?
Cool, cuz what I don't need to do is I
have a half done file and then be really
confused when I like tried to do
another GitHub build action later and
it doesn't compile.
So we go into this time zone
are we running the server we are,
so, this app does a few things.
It shows you date.now.
It shows you how long you've
been staring at this page.
This is hitting some public API, right?
So, it does all the things that you might
actually choose to mock in an application.
We have real apps that will use like play
right but I just needed something tiny.
What if we needed to test this thing this
component is really hard to test all
the functions in here
really hard to test and
it's got almost all the problems
that I've been leading up to.
In one little microcosm,
I will put an extra fun ones in there,
shuffles them with math
dot random as well.
All right, same we were that you UID now
I would argue to kind of like start to
pull a lot of our unit testing talk
together that like stuff we did with
a symmetric mattress yesterday right.
Where we like there's parts of
this I don't care about, right?
Think about that, that's an option that
I wanna leave on the table for you.
But in some cases,
you're like I wanna just make sure
this thing mostly renders the same.
Maybe you are using a snapshot for
a good reason.
Math.random is gonna ruin your life,
time is gonna ruin your life, and
a third-party API is going
to ruin your life, right?
There are three problems with
this ridiculous component,
all of which are bad.
So if we look at it, yeah,
should we show the to-dos at all?
It keeps the current time and
sets it on an interval.
Yeah, everything that you hate in
the world is happening in here.
It makes an API request and
then it renders it to the page.
So you can imagine that like
if I did something really like
agree just in this case,
like for instance,
this one was like giving
us trouble earlier.
Like should match snapshot?
Well that's not gonna go well,
cuz that snapshot will by definition.
And this is why things
were breaking before.
So we can do, let's do npx vitest.
It fails.
Because the time is different than
the last time that it rendered.
Also, apparently I changed
something since then, but
that doesn't really matter either way.
So you could update the snapshot and
it passes Until you run it again and
then it fails.
All right, and this is like from my like,
this is what I got went through
with that query builder.
And this is a place where you might
choose to do something like this.
So what you could do is say something
like, this is why because y'all
been asking you every time you're like,
can I use it before each now?
I might not yet, not yet.
Now, for each you could have
used it the entire time.
I just choose not to cuz I've
been hurt too many times.
Sometimes you have to be like,
Steve says this is the right thing
just realize like Steve's been hurt.
Use fake timers, and you can guess what
that other method was, use real timers.
It should probably go in the after each or
after all,
I don't really care which one you do.
It's cool and so now this one fails.
Why does it fail?
Because I was back to importing this time.
Okay, all right.
We've got the broken snapshot.
It fixes.
Run it again.
Let's see real quick what our issue is and
because it should.
Unless it behaves slightly
differently let's set the time
Okay, yeah, maybe it's out of date or
maybe there's a slight of ingest or
maybe I'm just wrong.
I was under the impression it
does freeze it at the Unix epoch,
but I could have been wrong.
So we use fake timers and
then I set the system time to
whatever time I want if you want.
If you hate this,
you can put use new date and put in,
you can set it any date you want.
I just took the one that was in
my snapshot and went with it.
>> Basically,
setting the system time to the fake
time that you created on line six, okay.
>> Yep.
>> And could you write this yourself?
Could you monkey patch date.now, store
the real date.now in another function,
and then restore it after the test?
You absolutely could.
You shouldn't, but you absolutely could.
So this is now setting the time
to one single point where
it makes total sense to do that.
Right, and so
this will freeze it in one place.
There are things that you can do, for
a case of a snapshot test you can
probably just freeze it, right?
In the case of an animation,
you might choose to move time forward,
right?
And you can do that you can also do a like
set to a new system time, now you can add
>> You could also do like a.
>> Why?
>> Yeah?
>> Maybe I'm misunderstanding, but
on line seven, instead of that number,
couldn't you put line six
inside of those parentheses?
Or is that line six to a variable and
then put that variable in the parentheses?
>> What's the,
the variable is just freezing time.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, line six is freezing time?
>> Yep.
>> The value actually
came from the snapshot.
>> Yeah, I don't super understand what,
is there extra complexity or a problem?
You said not to do this,
to do the date object.
I feel like I do one time
>> One, like for me, so for instance,
I was like the use case that I had,
I'm actually displaying this number.
So great, right.
The use case that I had of If I like and
I chose very specific dates,
I chose January 1st of that year, right?
Cause it's easy in my head to do what
was one month earlier, December 1.
So if you're that's the logic that
you're using on the use case your app,
yeah we'll put in new date right
of we're doing the math, right?
Any form of a representation
of a date will work, right?
And so, new date also,
it's can I live remember the various
syntaxes you can hand to new date I'm
not entirely confident that I could.
We'll find out together,
that was also part of it,
is the fun parts of live coding.
That does work so yeah,
if your logic is like,
let's say you're writing
a function that is like.
Four hours ago on a blog post and for
some reason you're not using a library for
reasons I don't understand.
That's not true,
all those date libraries are terrible.
But like you could theoretically choose
to do something like this as well.
And so, this will like freeze it
at that as that particular date or
something along those lines.
So, whenever you rerun the snapshot.
It's still going to do that right there
>> Yep
>> Yea, it's set to that day so
things where you need anything
where you can do this for
any like effective like
random number right.
If I do something like get
to dues which is like I
told you we had an API That
randomly hits it.
Randomly shuffles like 5 blog posts,
right?
It breaks again.
This one has a closing UL tag so update.
Yeah, be great.
Just update the snapshot.
That's why you don't you
snap shots with her.
How that one works?
We can I got to check that one out and
see if I broke something.
But you could also in this point,
choose to stub out math.random, right?
I wonder if faking the time breaks for
reasons I don't understand.
But you can choose to stop
any of these things for
things you don't control, right?
The other things, the one thing you
wanna make sure that you do in this
case though is you wanna say after each.
What do you think you do in this case?
>> Tying back to reality?
Yeah, like you need to make sure and
I'll talk about these in
a sec second as well.
But here we go.
So we've got we have.
>> Chear all timers.
>> Use real timers again, so
that will put everything
back after every test.
Now your tests should run in
isolation in the modern era.
>> A lot of these API methods
are from older test suites.
These days in the modern era, most of your
tests will run in a separate process.
And there's less likelihood
that you'll leak out but
like yeah it's nice to be able to
switch out just provide tests and
not have to like worry about
cutting that stuff out.
Just will also I believe to that as well.
But like I'm not shutting
the Mocha does for instance.
>> For each above the tests,
is it still gonna do it after
it will still do it after?
>> This is now a question of like,
what do you like more.
Reading it yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> How do you like.
>> Right,
this is more likely that
you're not gonna mess it up.
The other one feels right.
>> Yeah [LAUGH].
>> [LAUGH] Right, it doesn't matter.
>> Feels right to you [LAUGH].
>> Yeah, exactly, right, and this is
why programmers are terrible people.
>> [LAUGH]
>> And I have to import after each, or
things won't work.
And again,
there are certain things in this workshop,
particularly when we talked about
playwriting a second where like could some
of these things deserve
their own entire workshop?
In fact, I think for
unit testing, there is one.
For Cyprus, there is one.
I did it.
It's great.
You should watch it.
For playright, there presently isn't one.
So we'd like for some of these, we're
doing the high level version of this.
To kind of show you the wide range of
tools that you can deploy in various ways
to solve common problems.
And when you can and
cannot use them in a large code base.
But these these will work for
special things.
Time I'm okay with things I don't control.
I mostly harping on this because I it is
a talk that I have to have with people,
I work with, you know what I mean?
Like I the general thought process
around this is a little bit dangerous.
So this is like one of the hills
I'm willing to die on.
So you can start time.
Like again if we wanted to, for instance,
mock out like, fetch, you could do
that here to get the API request.
Whatever you need to do to
get this like stabilised.
So again you notice that I'm not talking
like actually doing the mock up of an API
cuz I want to show you a better
way that is kind of newish.
And we will kind of you know let's
transition to what I've made my point
about mocks